---
layout: post
title:  AS400 Resume
tags: [as400]
---

> "Hard work makes up for lack of brains"...Jason Suma's Dad

 _I enjoy programming._  I am an experienced iSeries /AS400 Application Developer and Analyst with over 20 years on the mid-range system.  Any and all the languages ever used on the platform in addition to SQL and DB/2 expertise.  Most places use RPG/free these days, but I can code it all.  Even the cycle.  I can fill any role from analyst to DBA to developer to project lead.   
 
 I can adapt to your methodology(Agile/scrum for example) as I have seen most of them.  The bottom line is getting the job done. 
 
 _All my years of experience have led me to a simple approach and philosophy.  Each project or problem undertake is guided by basic principles._
 
 * Understand the problem in sufficient detail before solving it.
 * Keep it simple if possible.
 * Communicate continuously and thoroughly.
 * Time is money.
 
 # iSeries Work History 
 
 _Since I have been on this platform 20 years plus I did not think it made sense to put every single thing I have ever done. I doubt it would get read.  I only list here the last 10 years of my experience for brevity.  If your particular requirement calls for some specialized skill I will add it or ask me.  From my experience every programming situation is different but there are common solutions and best practices which are more a function of experience over time that any one job that I did. Also since the big one(crash) things have changed a lot in the iSeries world.  I have been contracting mostly because the new paradigm seems to be not hiring perm anymore.  Its not a reflection of what I prefer but rather a reflection of the times._
 
 
### Oct 2015 – Jan. 2017 Senior iseries Consultant – Bank of America
 Monitor and Logging and PHH Loan acquisition/Conversion Project.
 Heavy SQL and RPGFREE/ILE. Made audit related changes and also a conversion
 job where creating tables from COBOL data division was required.
    
### Jan 2014 –March 2014   Senior Consultant – Bank of America
 Contract for the Architecture and Shared Services department performing iseriesimpact analysis and Code reviews for all iseries production promotions.  Analyze programs for best coding practices as well as SQL Performance techniques. Unforunately I joined exactly at a massive layoff and got caught up in it. But it was a good experience.
    
 ### Nov 2012– Sept 2013  – Senior Software Engineer – Kia Motors Design Center of America
 Worked on the Inventory Migration project utilizing RPGILE, SQLRPGLE. . Created new PDC Move System and redesigned forms using AFP with Overlays.
    
### June 2011– October 2012 – Senior Software Engineer – Bank of America
 Brought in to enhance and support the Single Family Default Mortgage HUD reporting system which is responsible for accurate reporting on default loans.  Personally made several significant system modifications to bring this application under compliance. SQLRPG, prototypes and service programs in a multithreaded environment.
    
### March 2004 – March 2010 – Senior Software Engineer – Bank of America/Countrywide Home Loans
 Expert iSeries(AS400) Developer(RPGILE) maintaining and enhancing a Treasury System which handles many of the Treasury functions for Bank of America Home Loans.  
    
 Developed a Check Request System for one of Bank of Americas subsidiaries (HFT) whereby the .NET client was able to request checks from their own internet based application which interfaced with the iseries using Web Services and SQL stored procedures on the AS/400 backend.
    
 Also converted some VB6 applications to .NET using C# as well as developed some reports using Crystal Reports .NET plugin and windows reporter.
    
 Developed several DOMINO workflow applications (Application Tracking as well as Help Desk) for my department which are extensively used.   
    
 Other work history > 10 years can be provided.
    
### Education and training
 2014 - 2016 Launch Academy Ruby on Rails bootcamp  
    
 B.S. Degree, Coleman College, San Diego, CA 
 Information Systems. Graduated with Honors
    
 A.S. Degree, Southwestern College, San Diego, CA, 	
 Biology. Graduated with Honors
 
 San Diego State University
 Emphasis in biology/general education.
    
 Graduate of Dale Carnegie Human Relations course.

