---
layout: post
title: ES6
category: javascript
tags: [javascript]
---

> *You're a blockhead charlie brown!*
  
# ES6 updates
### Block Bindings
In most C-based languages, variables (or bindings) are created at the spot where the declaration occurs. In JavaScript, however, this is not the case. Where your variables are actually created depends on how you declare them, and ECMAScript 6 offers options to make controlling scope easier.
  
#### Summary
The **let** and **const** block bindings introduce lexical scoping to JavaScript. These declarations are not hoisted and only exist within the block in which they are declared. This offers behavior that is more like other languages and less likely to cause unintentional errors, as variables can now be declared exactly where they are needed. As a side effect, you cannot access variables before they are declared, even with safe operators such as typeof. Attempting to access a block binding before its declaration results in an error due to the binding’s presence in the temporal dead zone (TDZ).
    
Block-level declarations are those that declare variables that are inaccessible outside of a given block scope. Block scopes, also called lexical scopes, are created:
  1. Inside of a function
  2. Inside of a block (indicated by the { and } characters)
 
 
In many cases, let and const behave in a manner similar to var; however, this is not true for loops. For both let and const, for-in and for-of loops create a new binding with each iteration through the loop. That means functions created inside the loop body can access the loop bindings values as they are during the current iteration, rather than as they were after the loop’s final iteration (the behavior with var). The same is true for let declarations in for loops, while attempting to use const declarations in a for loop may result in an error.
    
The current best practice for block bindings is to use **const** by default and only use let when you know a variable’s value needs to change. This ensures a basic level of immutability in code that can help prevent certain types of errors.
  
#### Example
If you want a variable to exist in the below code use the let outside of the if block.
   ```javascript
     function getValue(condition) {
     
         if (condition) {
             let value = "blue";
     
             // other code
     
             return value;
         } else {
     
             // value doesn't exist here 
             // before ES6 the variable does exist here due to hoisting, but is undefined.
     
             return null;
         }
     
         // value doesn't exist here
         //  before ES6 the variable does exist but is undefined.
     }
   
   ```
   
       // Consider this GOOD use:
       for (let i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
           process(items[i]);
       }
       
       // i is not accessible here - throws an error
       console.log(i);
 
  
